---
title: Subspace of life advices 
layout: default
tags: Life
categories: Draft
---

<!-- <figure>
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/EFkyxzJtiv4?si=wx0Mz6DRPr6kl4EE" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<figcaption>
	<em>Some early exposure to Stoicism.</em>
</figcaption>
</figure> -->


## The goal of this article 

There are two subspaces of advices  that I face, and they seem to be orthogonal to each other at first glance. I want to clarify the existence of both, get into their details and verify the orthogonality while also linking the appropriate literature. This will be a take on both of the advices based on my experiences and explore how I want to go ahead in life.

## Background I: Reflecting on my way of living

All this time I have been a passiona maniac. I did thing because I loved them. But more importantly I had a lot of values in the things that I do, and I tried my best to preserve them during the toughest of semesters. It was always a battle of choices and results. Given the circumstances, the following hit me -

<blockquote>
“It is our choices, Harry, that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities.”
</blockquote>

 I don’t take the usual paths, they are difficult for me. I like to just work, work as much as possible and believed that there will be results, because I believed that I am sticking to the right process. Over the years, that’s how I raged over everything. I am a passion maniac who works based on my own passions instead of a standard plan that is known to work. I never got an oppurtunity to lay out a plan for myself with strength, because perhaps I was stuck in the execution of the plan that I had no time or interests to explain it to the public and tell them that this is a path I am going to take even if though it's not standard. I never got an oppurtunity to plan amidst the chaos too. May be I was never privileged enough to do that given my interests. I kept going ahead, telling myself fight, fight, and fight… anyway.
 
 [perhaps all of life is with obstacles and things, not just accademia nd we have to continue to stick to our values.... WE will be reminded again that perhaps we can't just believe in outcomes but in _hard ass obstacles that will allow us_ to go there... but that's the moment when  we strike back the heardest!]

This has been reinforced by thoughts of a miriad people, it's not my own. 

Now that I see where this sort of beliefs come from - I realize it was 

- [Stoicism](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EFkyxzJtiv4&t=35s&pp=ygUIc3RvaWNpc20%3D)
- [Quotes](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/876-to-be-yourself-in-a-world-that-is-constantly-trying)
- [Legit Films on life](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HLMfhaRPHiU&list=PLWIyb5X-VPGH7yWt1oe0M961D1xXRBfiv)

But it's hard to see the whole in them. It's only now I see more to it because I think it's time. They have imparted a courage in me to take the difficult paths, to set me in the direction of _pursuit to goals_ with deep values. 


Fortunately, life hit me good and taught me that fueling the courage is not the only thing one needs to do, to stay on this path. It's time that I learn how to not just be in the pursuit of it, but also be an active learner of living this way, not just setting onto this path. There are many things that come by and we must stay strong.

I say this because I have been searching for people who would be interested in guiding me in my academic interests and I have been learning about the game of academia.


So what lead to was a re-evaluation. But before that, let me describe the environment I am surrounded by, for a better perspective.


## Background II: The societal advice surrounding me

I haven't seen a single person surrounding me who talks about their passions, who follows their dreams regardless of obstacles, who speaks of values. Neither there is any person who is doing that, nor there is any person who encourages to do that. No one tells you to continue your passions, everyone is just acting in this big machine. 


## Re-evaluation: The Grant's advice and conversation with Abha


## Reinforcement: A new beginning of my Stoicism









