---
title: Celebrating Quantum Field Theory
layout: default
tags: Physics
categories: Farm
---

<p>Back when I was in second and third years here at NISER, I found the idea of Quantum Field Theory quite
    exciting
    and was looking forward to get to know how all the fundamental particle physics stuff is exactly calculated. I think much of the
    longing
    came from the book <i>Surely you are joking Mr. Feynman</i>. I wished for someone to just talk about it
    and pass the feels. Of course David Tong did, and I was waiting to see the calculations myself. Of course, I
    was
    no way ready until this semester to understand such calculations, but
    you get it. I was excited, and also patient.
    And today we finished calculating the anomalous magnetic moment!
    Yes, for which Schwinger was awarded the 1965 Nobel Prize, and is one of the most accurate theoretical and
    experimental agreement in the history of phyiscs. I am elated and I want to celebrate this with a series of articles
    on some fundamental QFT results, that could probably keep the excitement high for
    the studfents in their junior years. I want to do this atleast for my third year self.</p>


Here's something that I sent in our QFT-II Google Classroom:

<blockquote>
    🎉A milestone in our QFT education! Here is a lecture straight from one of the creators. A video recording
    of
    Feynman talking about the calculation of the anomalous magnetic moment :). If I am not wrong, he is
    referring to
    the value of g/2.

    <br>

    Timestamp ~ 9:45

    <br> <br>
    <i>"And then it turned out surprisingly, it was worked out more or less independently but three guys who got
        Nobel
        Prize, one of which is here (: and uh... professor Schwinger, that's not me; one of the other ones ...
        Schwinger
        for example calculated this and found it was like...."</i>



    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bAnnEiAjN6U?si=7W9mtfr4FniK5nDa" title="YouTube video player"
        frameborder="0"
        allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
        referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    <br>

    03.04.2024.
</blockquote>

I hope I get some time in my break year to communicate the following for an outsider or a young one curious about QFT
(and for myself too).

<ol>
    <li>So, what is Quantum Field theory? How did it origin?</li>
    <li>The Coloumb potential!</li> 
    <li>The anomalous magnetic moment of electron (g)!</li>
</ol>