---
title: Ideas of QFT - I  (a farewell
layout: default
tags: 
categories: 
---
  1 The first time I had the slightest clue about QED or Quantum Field Theory wa    s when I was reading _Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!_. I think that's wh    en I started to grow more towards high energy theory. This was during my Cla    ss 12 board exams. I remember rather vaguely about reading some Feynman's in    teraction with Hans Bethe, the day before my Physics board exam.
  2
  3 Even before that, the mystery of sub-atomic particles seemed very intriguing    . I had found out that, hydrogen atom along with proptons and electrons are     better explained using Quantum mechanics. This was around 9th-12th standards    .
  4
  5 Physics studies in higher secondary education was very distant from these id    eas of course. We were being trained on much more macroscopic aspects. To kn    ow the world on surface before diving deeper. But one paritcular topic caght     my attention quite stubbornly -- Fluid Dynamics. I hope I get to learn abou    t it much more detail.
  6
  7 But after entering college, in the second and third years, I had been indulg    ing on many public lectures which communicated ideas from Quantum Field Theo    ry. They claimed they could explain the elementary particles in the most fun    damental way possible. I had no idea how though. But now after five years of     majoring in Physics, it's worth reliving these subjects of which I had unde    rgone a rigorous training