---
title: The gentle nights
layout: default
tags: 
categories: Blog
---

It's probably more than a month now, since I started sleeping late into the night, early into the next day... It's so quiet, with no background pertubations. It's just me with my works.

There's also another aspect. I have been waking up so bleak this past few months, and it takes a lot of effort and lots of hours until I start working.

Brushing, bathing, sometimes eating seems like such a chore. I feel tied to my goals with all my intentions but I gotta do many other things around them - viz. sustain first while working...

So it's all bleak when I wake up. But on alternative days, workouts become a period of rescue... It's one of the only few things I can control. Feel like I achieved something, among all the other fitness things that I also gain. Of course, I am going through a knee injury, and that motivates me even further to train all the weak links consistently. 

But ah, sometimes, I just wanna wakeup and start studying, not brush, not bath, not eat, not workout...

But sometimes, I just wanna start a workout, sweat, and pump a little, replenish those nutrients and start studying...

ahh

so many weird states these days...


But afternoons things get more stable... I learned to put in small reps, to create an ignition, and also as a cycle of reward for the needy times... So until night, I already put in significant hours, three to five...depending on the mental load of solving problems... wakeup patterns, workout patterns, etc. And then I have also started to keep *Fixing Science In India* as my bed side read. So I am reading a few pages almost everyday... After 11pm or the midnight, there's another couple sessions of study usually born randomly out of bed-side reads and anxious little room-walks xd. 

So I push through for half an hour to couple hours putting in more reps and trying to finish few things...

Achievement motivation... Sometimes it's just better to nurture it, beyond the consistent discipline in doing things...

It's of course a double edged sword, but yeah... trying to get a little hold of it... when to *push*, when to *rep*, when to *rest*...

After a lot of these games, day and night, the night ends... I sleep around 3 or 4 am... waking up the next day again desolate (may be too intense of a word but serves, could use a scaling factor 0.6 to 0.8 reduce it's intensity)... doing some protein chores, doing some hygiene chores, doing some workout...

Workouts these days are really exciting... 

Again, taking few minutes to hours to get into the putting those reps in studying... 


It's pretty consistent I must say, these days, the hours of study, the workouts, the desolation, and everything...

I wrote a manifesto to remind myself of this year and about the next...

It's a matter of time... and reps...


Linear Algebra is going well. Ah, algebra is just so satisfying... probably because the problems to theory ratio is high towards problems... there's so many theoretical things we can unpack through problems, becomes a natural part of theory... May be it depends on the book too... 

Ha ha, what am I even saying, the two volumes of Terence Tao's... the close knit way of doing problems and theory... hmmmm....

I guess, the way I am doing algebra is nice, the separation between problems and theory is nice too
the close knit approach of Terence Tao's analysis books is nice too...

Anyway, it's almost 3 AM, I wanted to let some things out... since the tension of not writing about life somewhere builds up and can consume me very fast... This refreshes me so that the next day I can work on that problem of when an arbitrary subset of a vector space is a potetial translation of a subspace... Many chapters to go in the book... 

April and May for Algebra. Dummit And Foote has essentially a single chapter to go (to finish groups), but could use an additonal topic or two...


As usual, if I am too embarassed to talk about these publicly, I might just hide these off tomorrow (until I feel more confident again and unhide xd)...


Out of many influences, I must note the influence of two professors in the way I am approaching this math self-study...


Dr. T.K Naik's on solving problems and a rather direct question to math majors about *How many books have you solved **completely**?* 

And Dr. Manoj Mishra's on tediously *thinking* and *unwielding* the magic behind the concepts and problems...

....

Night.

-----

PS: Nah, it's not just mental, it's physical. After sleeping for more than 8hrs sometimes, or basically just waking up at unordinary times like, between 11am - 1pm, there is a sluggish, and weak feeling... It takes some time to pump the blood to right places properly! So during that process it's just mehh...

I will have a light breakfast and workout after an hour or two now...

Will try to finish E.3E of Linear Algebra until then.

