---
title: Practicing ideas
layout: default
tags: Life
categories: Fields
---

I clearly am facing the consequences of a mind out of practice, a mind out of mindfulness, a mind succumbded to the worldly stress. I could see myself coming out of the practicing mind, but I neglected it. I now see clearly the consequences. 

I will now commit to the idea of practicising the philosphies of life constantly. We must sharpen them regularly. For me meditation, and journaling are such an act of practice. 

I will journal more regularly and meditate regularly from now on. I have been doing it, but since 10 days, I have crashed. It was easy to miss more days after missing a couple. And it's also because I was not headstrong about my weekend plans. 

I wonder - does discipline take a headstrong mindset about things? What if I don't have it? I mean life hits you, and it feels like you need a more figured out mind to be able to stick to your routines or plans. But, I guess I need to just "commit" to things, just like I have been commiting to duolingo and web dev. 

The recent crash has been due to a discontent with the amount of work or a missing milestone in my web dev/3D learning. I got impatient and I worked in random hours, destroying the entire plan of things. 

I will now commit to working between 0900 and 1730 hours and meditate/journal/play between 1730 and 1900 hours and work on the side projects - the artistic ones for the rest of the period. More importantly I have to work harder to sieze the day's time to be able to work on those avenues. I need to wake up early and work on them, so that I can feel the constant _light_ of them.

But again, it should also be simple, beacause consistency is the key, not just the hardwork.

Mondays are going to be demanding, because of the project meeting and assignment. But yeah, I need to rest well and begin the next day without a lot of baggage!

<div class="signature">
    <p>- Shubhang</p>
</div>